You will now use everything that
you learned to create a matrix that corresponds to all the features
of your training example. Specifically, I will walk you through an
algorithm that allows you to generate this x matrix. Let's take a look at how you can build it. Previously, you saw how to preprocess a
tweet like this one to get a list of words that contain all the relevant information
for the sentiment analysis tasks in NLP. With that list of words,
you would be able to get a nice representation using
a frequency dictionary mapping. And finally, get a vector with a bias unit
and two additional features that store the sum of the number of times that every
word on your process tweets appear in positive tweets and the sum of the number
of times they appear in negative ones. In practice, you would have to perform
this process on a set of m tweets. So given a set of multiple raw tweets,
you would have to preprocess them one by one to get these sets of lists
of words one for each of your tweets. And finally, you'd be able to extract features using
a frequencies dictionary mapping. At the end, you would have a matrix,
X with m rows and three columns where every row would contain
the features for each one of your tweets. The general implementation of
this process is rather easy. First, you build
the frequencies dictionary, then initialize the matrix X to
match your number of tweets. After that, you'll want to go over
through your sets of tweets carefully deleting stop words, stemming, deleting
URLs, and handles and lower casing. And finally, extract the features
by summing up the positive and negative frequencies of the tweets. For this week's assignment, you've
been provided some helper functions, build_freqs and process_tweet. However, you'll have to implement
the function to extract the features of a single tweet. That was a lot of code, but
at least now you have your X matrix. And in the next video, we will show you
how you can feed in that X matrix into your logistic regression classifier. Let's take a look at how you can do that.