What is autocorrect? Autocorrect is an
application that changes misspelled words
into the correct ones. You probably know it
very well already. You have it on your
phone, tablet, and on your computer inside your document editors,
and email applications. For example, it takes a
sentence like this one, happy birthday deah friend, and corrects the misspelled word deah to a word that you
probably intended to write, which in this context
would be dear, correctly spelled D-E-A-R. But what if you typed
deer instead of dear? Here you see the word
is spelled correctly, but its context is incorrect. Well, unless your friend
happens to be an actual deer, you will not test for
this contextual error this week as it's a more
sophisticated problem. You'll get to learn
about that another time. Instead, this week you'll
only look for words that have been misspelled and make
corrections to these. This involves a simple yet powerful model as you will see. Let me show you an overview
of how autocorrect works. There are four key steps. First, identify an
incorrect word, misspelling is one
way to do this. Second, find strings 1, 2, 3, or any n edit distances away. Don't worry, you will learn about minimum edit
distance shortly. For now, what's important
to know is that if a string is one edit distance away from
the string that you typed, it's more similar to
your string compared to a string that is two
edit distances away. Third, filter the strings for real words that are
spelled correctly. Fourth, calculate
word probabilities, which tell you how likely
each word is to appear in this context and choose the most likely candidate
to be the replacement. So now you have a better
intuition for what is autocorrect and how it
works. That's good. Next, you'll take a closer look at the details for implementing each step so that you can begin to build the autocorrect model. Now you know how
autocorrect works. In the coding exercise
of this week, you will implement it and see for yourself that it
works really well. Next, I'll show you how to speed up edit distance computation.