Welcome back. You
previously learned to encode a tweet as a vector of dimension V. You will now
learn to encode a tweet or specifically represented as
a vector of dimension 3. In doing so, you'll have a much faster speed for your logistic
regression classifier, because instead of
learning V features, you only have to
learn three features. Let's take a look at
how you can do this. You just saw that the
frequency of a word in a class is simply
the number of times that the word appears
on the set of tweets belonging to that class and that this table is basically a dictionary mapping
from word class pairs, to frequencies, or
it just tells us how many times each word showed up in its corresponding class. Now that you've built your
frequencies dictionary, you can use it to extract useful features for
sentiment analysis. What does a feature look like? Let's look at the
arbitrary tweet m. The first feature would be
a bias unit equal to 1. The second is the sum of the positive frequencies for
every unique word on tweet m. The third is the sum of negative frequencies for every
unique word on the tweet. So to extract the features
for this representation, you'd only have to sum
frequencies of words. Easy. For instance, take
the following tweets. Now let's look at
the frequencies for the positive class
from the last lecture. The only words from the
vocabulary that don't appear on these tweets are
happy and because. Now let's take a look at
the second feature from the representation that
you saw on the last slide. To get this value, you need to sum the
frequencies of the words from the vocabulary that
appear on the tweet. At the end, you get a
value equal to eight. Now let's get the value
of the third feature. It is the sum of
negative frequencies of the words from the vocabulary
that appear on the tweet. For this example,
you should get 11 after summing up the
underlined frequencies. So far, this tweets, this representation
would be equal to the vector 1, 8, 11. You now know how to represent a tweet as a vector
of dimension 3. In the next video
you will learn to pre-process your tweets
and as a result, you will use those
pre-processed words as words of your vocabulary.